# MCA 
<h3> Week 1</h3>
<b>Current selected theme: La Bohème, Giacomo Puccini (libretto from 1896)</b>

Due to it's popularity, historical context and generally large amount of informaton available, my preliminary choice of theme is Puccini's opera La Bohème.

The challenges of working with music related data are varied and dependent on the inidividual data and the sources available. For more modern music accessing scores or recordings that abide by copyright laws can be difficult and therefore are issues with access/availability along with legal matters. Certain scores and other data may also be kept behind a paywall on certain sites and once again cause access issues. The curation of data may also run into issues on the opposite end of the spectrum with older music, where preservations of certain pieces might not always be complete or accurate due to lack of previous preservation of physical papers. This can be less reliable if the goal is to analyse data as truthfully to the original content and possible. It may also cause discourse amongst those interested in the music. There is also the inaccessibility of things such as scores when it comes to people interested in the data but perhaps have little knowledge or experience of music. Overall, accessibility is one of the largest issues when it comes to dealing with music data especially if people desire to find music that does not fall under public demain or creative commons.

La Bohème however does negate a lot of these challenges due to it's age and being in the public domain, but it still has the boundary of being relatively inaccessible to those without previous interest in music or opera. There is also it's age, which while a benefit in terms of copyright, also means there have been centuries of varied interpretations by conductors. Certain recordings and scores are also low quality and scans of older librettos may have preservation issues or damage. However, overall, the opera proves a relatively accessible option and has many variations and recordings to choose from.

Currently, a full and detailed libretto is available from IMLSP as well as individual acts. These are high quality and mostly readable. There are also downloadable audio recordings from as recently as 2010. These all have publisher info as well as other relevant metadata. 
